# advanced_irrigation
In this project, we are trying to minimise the human effort required for irrigation, but not at the cost of decrease in Total Annual Productivity. We are trying to automate the irrigation process through which currently Advanced Farmer can look after his farm without even physically present at his field. This system has been programmed with the help of microcontroller in a way such that when the system goes ON, it gives the output information to the controller, and the information can be store in a database and it can be send to the owner with the help of internet. The useful information can be access by the owner for making decision related to his field no matter in which part of world he would be in. Almost every electronic component can be programmed and work independent of the human intervention. By putting our knowledge in controller we gave it ability to take decision on our behalf. One of the important thing that should be kept in mind during working with such controller is that they are hypersensitive because they work on 5 volt and our household supply is 240 volts. Large voltage can burn the controller shut down the system. So an efficient interfacing required between controller and the water motor. This system makes crop production much easier and this project uses a microcontroller, which commands the water pump and there are also soil-moisture sensors, which sense the moisture in the field. A rain sensor is been employed to spot rain and make the decision accordingly. If the farmer is at distant from his agricultural field he will be having a notion of current conditions. Thus, it saves farmer’s effort, water, time and his Agriculture.
